#All data and scripts for the manuscript titled: "Habituation, den defence, and predatory opportunism appear to have contributed to coyote aggression in an urban park"

#Study summary:
Between December 2020 and August 2021, there were 45 coyote attacks reported in Vancouver, Canada's Stanley Park. We sought to identify spatial-temporal correlates of aggression in human-coyote encounters in Stanley Park during this time, as well as coyote attack victim characteristics, to identify possible causes of the rapid increase in aggression. We found that, relative to non-aggressive sightings, aggressive encounters occurred during long-term phases of high human visitation and in areas of relatively high human activity, but at times of day and week with relatively low visitation. We also found that aggression occurred closer to suspected den sites and farther from potentially accessible sources of human food (i.e., garbage bins and picnic areas). Finally, we found that coyotes were more likely to attack people who were running alone in the park. These results suggest that habituation, den defense, and predatory opportunism were likely contributors, and anecdotal evidence also suggests that food conditioning likely also played a role.

#Contents

SPCoyotes.R: Code for all analyses with user instructions commented in.

Data:
  sp_coyote_project_dataset.csv: All data for human-coyote encounters, including spatial-temporal predictors.
  human_activity_blocks.csv: Summed totals of all recreationists tallied in Stanley Park during each monitoring period, broken down by activity and age/gender class.
  individual_human_activity.csv: Each individual recreationist detected in Stanley Park through all monitoring periods.
  
GIS_Layers:
  SP_landcover_2020.lyrx: An ArcGIS file showing the land cover class map for Stanley Park.

Plots: A folder containing all plots generated by the R script.

#R and package versions used

R: 4.3.2.
tidyverse: 2.0.0
visreg: 2.7.0
MuMIn: 1.48.4
car: 3.1.3
leaflet: 2.2.2
ggpubr: 0.6.0
caret: 7.0.1